I was twenty-five years old then, began N.N., so you see al this is ancient history. I had onlky just excaped from tutelage and was going abroad, not to "complete my education", as they used to say in those days, but simply because I wanted to have a look at the wide world. I was healthy, yougn high-spirited; I had plenty of money and had as yet acquired no responsibilities - and I lived for the moment, did what I liked, in a word, it was the springtime of my life. It never even occurred to me then that man is not a plant and that his springtime is but a brief one. The young eat gilded honey-cakes, thinking that's what was meant by daily bread; but the time will come when they will be glad of a crust. There is no point in dwelling on this, though.
I travelled with neither aim nor plan, stopping wherever I liked and resuming my journey as soona s I felt a desire for new faces - and I mean faces. It was only people that interested me; I detested monuments, maginificent collections, and the very sight of a cicerone was depressing and hateful to mel I was bored to death in the Dresden Grune Gewolbe. Nature affectedd me intensely, but I did not care for the so-called natural beauties, for impressive peaks, cliffs, or waterfalls; I did not like to have Nature forced on my notice, I would not brook her interference. But faces, living human faces, human speech, the movements and laugther of human beings - these were things I could not do without. I was alsways most happy and at my ease in a crowd - I liked going where others went, shouting when others shouted, and at the same time was fond of observing how these others shouted. My chieve amusement was to observer human beings ... and I did not merely observe them, I examined them with a kind of jouyous, insatialbe curiosity. Buit again I am straying from ym narrative.
Well then, twenty years ago, I was living in the small German town of Z., on thje left bank of the Rhine. I was in search of solitude, having recently been smittten by the charms of a certain young widow whose acquaintance I had made at a watering-place. She was extremely handsome and clever, and flirted with all and sundry, including my unworthy self, first encouraging me, only to wound me cruelly and abandom me for a rosy-cheeked Baravian lieutenant. It must be admitted that the wound to my heart was not so very deep, but I considered myself bound to indulge in melancholy and oslitude for a certain time - the young do induglge in such moods - and took up my residence in the town of Z.
This little town took my fancy because of its situation at the foot of two high hills, its crumbling walls and towers, old lime-trees and the high bridge over the sparking river, a tributatry of the Rhine, and most of all, byh its good whine. The prettiest blonde German damsels walked up and down the narrows streets every evening as soonb as the sun had set (it was June), greweting the foreeigner with a pleasantly uttered Guten Abend; some of the did not even go in when the moon rose behind the steep roofs of the ancient houses and the small cobblestones in the road lay clearly outlined in its still beams. It was then that I liked best to roam the streests of the little town. The moon seemed to be gazing steadily down at it from the pure sky, and the town felt this gaze and lay there serene and responsive, flooded by the moonlight, taht tranndual light which is nevertheless so subtly disturbing. The weathercock on top of the high Gothic steeple shone a pale gold, and the same gold shimmered on the black glraming surface of the river. Slender candles (the Germans are a thrifty nation!) flickered modestly in the narrow windows beneath slate roofs. Vines thrust out curling tendrils mysteriously from behind stone walls; something fitted by in the shadow of the ancient well int eh middle fo the triangular town square, the drowsy whistle of the night watchman suddenly broke the silence, and amiable dog growled softly, and the air was so caressing to some's face, thje lime-trees were so fragrant, that one breathed deeper and deeper, and the word Gretchen rose to one's lips either as between an exclamation or a question.
The town of Z. lies about a mile away from the bank of the Rine. I often went to gaze upoin the mighty river and sat for hours at a time on a stone bench beneatha  huge, solutary ash tree, forcing myself to brood over the fickle widow. A little statue of the Madonna, whih a child-like face and a crimson heart stabbed through and through with swords on the exposed breat, peered sadly out from among the foliage. On the opposite bank lay the town of L. which was a little larger than that in which I had taken up my residence. One evening Iwas sitting on my favourite bench, gazing in turns at the river, the sky and the vineyeards. Flaxen-headed urchins were scrambling over the side of a boat, hauld on to the bank with its tar-smeared bottom uppermost. Ships glided slowly downstream with slack sails; the greenish waves slipped by with faintly gurgling ripples. Suddenly I caught the sound of music; I listedned more attentively. A waltz awas being played in the town of L.; the double-bass boomed sp[asmodically, the violin poured out in an indistinct melody, the flute whistled cheerfully.
"What's that?" I asked of an old man in a velveteen waistcoat, blue stocking and buckled shoes, who was just then approaching me.
"That?" he repeated, shifthing the stem of his pipe from thbe corner of his mouth to the other. "It's the sudents from B. who hav ecome here to hold their Kommers."
"I should like to have a look at this Kommers," I said to myself. "And I've never been in L., either." I sought out the 